README.md, before:

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/istio/operator)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/istio/operator)
[![GolangCI](https://golangci.com/badges/github.com/istio/operator.svg)](https://golangci.com/r/github.com/istio/operator)

# Istio Operator

The Istio operator CLI is beta and the controller is alpha for 1.4. You can
[contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md) by picking an
[unassigned open issue](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fenvironments%2Foperator+no%3Aassignee),
creating a [bug or feature request](BUGS-AND-FEATURE-REQUESTS.md),
or just coming to the weekly [Environments Working Group](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/WORKING-GROUPS.md)
meeting to share your ideas.

This document is an overview of how the operator works from a user perspective. For more details about the design and
architecture and a code overview, see [ARCHITECTURE.md](./ARCHITECTURE.md).

The operator CLI is distributed to users as part of istioctl. The `mesh` command
in this repo is simply a wrapper to speed up development - the subcommands are the same code that is incorporated into
istioctl. Making changes to any `mesh` subcommand will be reflected in istioctl after one of the regular syncs to
istio/operator.

## Introduction

This repo reorganizes the current [Helm installation parameters](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/installation-options/) into two groups:

- The new [platform level installation API](pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/istiocontrolplane_types.proto), for managing
K8s settings like resources, auto scaling, pod disruption budgets and others defined in the
[KubernetesResourceSpec](https://github.com/istio/operator/blob/905dd84e868a0b88c08d95b7ccf14d085d9a6f6b/pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/istiocontrolplane_types.proto#L411)
- The configuration API that currently uses the
[Helm installation parameters](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/installation-options/) for backwards
compatibility. This API is for managing the Istio control plane configuration settings.

Some parameters will temporarily exist in both APIs - for example, setting K8s resources currently can be done through
either API above. However, the Istio community recommends using the first API as it is more consistent, is validated,
and will naturally follow the graduation process for APIs while the same parameters in the configuration API are planned
for deprecation.

This repo currently provides pre-configured Helm values sets for different scenarios as configuration
[profiles](https://istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/config-profiles/), which act as a starting point for
an Istio install and can be customized by creating customization overlay files or passing parameters when
calling Helm. Similarly, the operator API uses the same profiles (expressed internally through the new API), which can be selected
as a starting point for the installation. For comparison, the following example shows the command needed to install
Istio using the SDS configuration profile using Helm:

```bash
helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
    --values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-sds-auth.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

In the new API, the same profile would be selected through a CustomResource (CR):

```yaml
# sds.yaml

apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  profile: sds
```

See [Select a specific configuration_profile](#select-a-specific-configuration-profile) for more information.

If you don't specify a configuration profile, Istio is installed using the `default` configuration profile. All
profiles listed in istio.io are available by default, or `profile:` can point to a local file path to reference a custom
profile base to use as a starting point for customization. See the [API reference](pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/istiocontrolplane_types.proto)
for details.

## Developer quick start

The quick start describes how to install and use the operator `mesh` CLI command and/or controller.

### Building

If you're trying to do a local build that bypasses the build container, you'll need to
to execute the following step one time.

```
GO111MODULE=on go get github.com/jteeuwen/go-bindata/go-bindata@v3.0.8-0.20180305030458-6025e8de665b
```

#### Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/istio/operator.git
cd operator
```

#### CLI

To build the operator CLI, simply:

```bash
make mesh
```

This will create a binary called `mesh` in ${GOPATH}/bin. Ensure this is in your PATH to run the examples below.

#### Controller

Building a custom controller requires a Dockerhub (or similar) account. To build using the container based build:

```bash
HUB=docker.io/<your-account> TAG=latest make docker.all
```

This builds the controller binary and docker file, and pushes the image to the specified hub with the `latest` tag.
Once the images are pushed, configure kubectl to point to your cluster and install the controller. You should edit
the file deploy/operator.yaml to point to your docker hub:

```yaml
          image: docker.io/<your-account>/operator
```

Install the controller manifest and example IstioControlResource CR:

```bash
kubectl apply -k deploy/
kubectl apply -f deploy/crds/istio_v1alpha2_istiocontrolplane_cr.yaml 
```

This installs the controller into the cluster in the istio-operator namespace. The controller in turns installs
the Istio control plane into the istio-system namespace by default.

### Relationship between the CLI and controller

The CLI and controller share the same API and codebase for generating manifests from the API. You can think of the
controller as the CLI command `mesh manifest apply` running in a loop in a pod in the cluster and using the config
from the in-cluster IstioControlPlane CustomResource (CR). 
There are two major differences:
1. The controller does not accept any dynamic user config through flags. All user interaction is through the
IstioControlPlane CR.
1. The controller has additional logic that mirrors istioctl commands like upgrade, but is driven from the declarative
API rather than command line.

### Quick tour of CLI commands

#### Flags

The `mesh` command supports the following flags:

- `logtostderr`: log to console (by default logs go to ./mesh-cli.log).
- `dry-run`: console output only, nothing applied to cluster or written to files.
- `verbose`: display entire manifest contents and other debug info (default is false).

#### Basic default manifest

The following command generates a manifest with the compiled-in `default` profile and charts:

```bash
mesh manifest generate
```

You can see these sources for the compiled-in profiles and charts in the repo under `data/`. These profiles and charts are also included in the Istio release tar. 

#### Output to dirs

The output of the manifest is concatenated into a single file. To generate a directory hierarchy with subdirectory
levels representing a child dependency, use the following command:

```bash
mesh manifest generate -o istio_manifests
```

Use depth first search to traverse the created directory hierarchy when applying your YAML files. This is needed for
correct sequencing of dependencies. Child manifest directories must wait for their parent directory to be fully applied,
but not their sibling manifest directories.

#### Just apply it for me

The following command generates the manifests and applies them in the correct dependency order, waiting for the
dependencies to have the needed CRDs available:

```bash
mesh manifest apply
```

#### Review the values of a configuration profile

The following commands show the values of a configuration profile:

```bash
# show available profiles
mesh profile list

# show the values in demo profile
mesh profile dump demo

# show the values after a customization file is applied
mesh profile dump -f samples/policy-off.yaml

# show differences between the default and demo profiles
mesh profile dump default > 1.yaml
mesh profile dump demo > 2.yaml
mesh profile diff 1.yaml 2.yaml

# show the differences in the generated manifests between the default profile and a customized install
mesh manifest generate > 1.yaml
mesh manifest generate -f samples/pilot-k8s.yaml > 2.yaml
mesh manifest diff 1.yam1 2.yaml

```

The profile dump sub-command supports a couple of useful flags:

- `config-path`: select the root for the configuration subtree you want to see e.g. just show Pilot:

```bash
mesh profile dump --config-path trafficManagement.components.pilot
```

- `set`: set a value in the configuration before dumping the resulting profile e.g. show the minimal profile:

```bash
mesh profile dump --set profile=minimal
```


#### Select a specific configuration profile

The simplest customization is to select a profile different to `default` e.g. `sds`. See [samples/sds.yaml](samples/sds.yaml):

```yaml
# sds-install.yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  profile: sds
```

Use the Istio operator `mesh` binary to generate the manifests for the new configuration profile:

```bash
mesh manifest generate -f samples/sds.yaml
```

After running the command, the Helm charts are rendered using `data/profiles/sds.yaml`.

#### Install from file path

The compiled in charts and profiles are used by default, but you can specify a file path, for example:

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  profile: /usr/home/bob/go/src/github.com/ostromart/istio-installer/data/profiles/default.yaml
  installPackagePath: /usr/home/bob/go/src/github.com/ostromart/istio-installer/data/charts/
```

You can mix and match these approaches. For example, you can use a compiled-in configuration profile with charts in your
local file system.

#### Migration from values.yaml
The following command takes helm values.yaml files and output the new IstioControlPlaneSpec:
```bash
mesh manifest migrate /usr/home/bob/go/src/istio.io/installer/istio-control/istio-discovery/values.yaml
```

If a directory is specified, all files called "values.yaml" under the directory will be converted into a single combined IstioControlPlaneSpec:
```bash
mesh manifest migrate /usr/home/bob/go/src/istio.io/installer/istio-control
```

If no file is specified, the IstioControlPlane CR in the kube config cluster is used as an input:
```bash
mesh manifest migrate
```

#### Check diffs of manifests
The following command takes two manifests and output the differences in a readable way. It can be used to compare between the manifests generated by operator API and helm directly:
```bash
mesh manifest diff ./out/helm-template/manifest.yaml ./out/mesh-manifest/manifest.yaml
```

### New API customization

The [new platform level installation API](pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/istiocontrolplane_types.proto)
defines install time parameters like feature and component enablement and namespace, and K8s settings like resources, HPA spec etc. in a structured way.
The simplest customization is to turn features and components on and off. For example, to turn off all policy ([samples/sds-policy-off.yaml](samples/sds-policy-off.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  profile: sds
  policy:
    enabled: false
```

The operator validates the configuration and automatically detects syntax errors. Helm lacks this capability. If you are
using Helm values that are incompatible, the schema validation used in the operator may reject input that is valid for
Helm. Another customization is to define custom namespaces for features ([samples/trafficManagement-namespace.yaml](samples/trafficManagement-namespace.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  trafficManagement:
    components:
      namespace: istio-control-custom
```

The traffic management feature comprises Pilot and Proxy components. Each of these components has K8s
settings, and these can be overridden from the defaults using official K8s APIs rather than Istio defined schemas
 ([samples/pilot-k8s.yaml](samples/pilot-k8s.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  trafficManagement:
    components:
      pilot:
        k8s:
          resources:
            requests:
              cpu: 1000m # override from default 500m
              memory: 4096Mi # ... default 2048Mi
          hpaSpec:
            maxReplicas: 10 # ... default 5
            minReplicas: 2  # ... default 1
          nodeSelector: # ... default empty
            master: "true"
          tolerations: # ... default empty
          - key: dedicated
            operator: Exists
            effect: NoSchedule
          - key: CriticalAddonsOnly
            operator: Exists
```

The K8s settings are defined in detail in the
[operator API](pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/istiocontrolplane_types.proto).
The settings are the same for all components, so a user can configure pilot K8s settings in exactly the same, consistent
way as galley settings. Supported K8s settings currently include:

- [resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/#resource-requests-and-limits-of-pod-and-container)
- [readiness probes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/)
- [replica count](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/)
- [HorizontalPodAutoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/)
- [PodDisruptionBudget](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions/#how-disruption-budgets-work)
- [pod annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/)
- [container environment variables](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/define-environment-variable-container/)
- [ImagePullPolicy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/)
- [priority calss name](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/pod-priority-preemption/#priorityclass)
- [node selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#nodeselector)
- [toleration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/taint-and-toleration/)
- [affinity and anti-affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity)
- [deployment strategy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/)

All of these K8s settings use the K8s API definitions, so [K8s documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/) can
be used for reference. All K8s overlay values are also validated in the operator.

### Customizing the old values.yaml API

The new platform install API above deals with K8s level settings. The remaining values.yaml parameters deal with Istio
control plane operation rather than installation. For the time being, the operator just passes these through to the Helm
charts unmodified (but validated through a
[schema](pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/values_types.go)). Values.yaml settings
are overridden the same way as the new API, though a customized CR overlaid over default values for the selected
profile. Here's an example of overriding some global level default values ([samples/values-global.yaml](samples/values-global.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  profile: sds
  values:
    global:
      logging:
        level: "default:warning" # override from info
```

Values overrides can also be specified for a particular component
 ([samples/values-pilot.yaml](samples/values-pilot.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  values:
    mixer:
      telemetry:
        loadshedding:
          latencyThreshold: 200ms  
```

### Advanced K8s resource overlays

Advanced users may occasionally have the need to customize parameters (like container command line flags) which are not
exposed through either of the installation or configuration APIs described in this document. For such cases, it's
possible to overlay the generated K8s resources before they are applied with user-defined overlays. For example, to
override some container level values in the Pilot container  ([samples/pilot-advanced-override.yaml](samples/pilot-advanced-override.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  trafficManagement:
    enabled: true
    components:
      proxy:
        enabled: false
      pilot:
        k8s:
          overlays:
          - kind: Deployment
            name: istio-pilot
            patches:
            - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:discovery].args.[30m]
              value: "60m" # OVERRIDDEN
            - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:discovery].ports.[containerPort:8080].containerPort
              value: 8090 # OVERRIDDEN
          - kind: Service
            name: istio-pilot
            patches:
            - path: spec.ports.[name:grpc-xds].port
              value: 15099 # OVERRIDDEN
```

The user-defined overlay uses a path spec that includes the ability to select list items by key. In the example above,
the container with the key-value "name: discovery" is selected from the list of containers, and the command line
parameter with value "30m" is selected to be modified. The advanced overlay capability is described in more detail in
the spec.

## Interaction with controller

The controller shares the same API as the operator CLI, so it's possible to install any of the above examples as a CR
in the cluster in the istio-operator namespace and the controller will react to it with the same outcome as running
`mesh manifest apply -f <path-to-custom-resource-file>`.

## Architecture

See [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md)

Commit message:

Add instructions for local running

README.md, after:

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/istio/operator)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/istio/operator)
[![GolangCI](https://golangci.com/badges/github.com/istio/operator.svg)](https://golangci.com/r/github.com/istio/operator)

# Istio Operator

The Istio operator CLI is beta and the controller is alpha for 1.4. You can
[contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md) by picking an
[unassigned open issue](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%2Fenvironments%2Foperator+no%3Aassignee),
creating a [bug or feature request](BUGS-AND-FEATURE-REQUESTS.md),
or just coming to the weekly [Environments Working Group](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/WORKING-GROUPS.md)
meeting to share your ideas.

This document is an overview of how the operator works from a user perspective. For more details about the design and
architecture and a code overview, see [ARCHITECTURE.md](./ARCHITECTURE.md).

The operator CLI is distributed to users as part of istioctl. The `mesh` command
in this repo is simply a wrapper to speed up development - the subcommands are the same code that is incorporated into
istioctl. Making changes to any `mesh` subcommand will be reflected in istioctl after one of the regular syncs to
istio/operator.

## Introduction

This repo reorganizes the current [Helm installation parameters](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/installation-options/) into two groups:

- The new [platform level installation API](pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/istiocontrolplane_types.proto), for managing
K8s settings like resources, auto scaling, pod disruption budgets and others defined in the
[KubernetesResourceSpec](https://github.com/istio/operator/blob/905dd84e868a0b88c08d95b7ccf14d085d9a6f6b/pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/istiocontrolplane_types.proto#L411)
- The configuration API that currently uses the
[Helm installation parameters](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/installation-options/) for backwards
compatibility. This API is for managing the Istio control plane configuration settings.

Some parameters will temporarily exist in both APIs - for example, setting K8s resources currently can be done through
either API above. However, the Istio community recommends using the first API as it is more consistent, is validated,
and will naturally follow the graduation process for APIs while the same parameters in the configuration API are planned
for deprecation.

This repo currently provides pre-configured Helm values sets for different scenarios as configuration
[profiles](https://istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/additional-setup/config-profiles/), which act as a starting point for
an Istio install and can be customized by creating customization overlay files or passing parameters when
calling Helm. Similarly, the operator API uses the same profiles (expressed internally through the new API), which can be selected
as a starting point for the installation. For comparison, the following example shows the command needed to install
Istio using the SDS configuration profile using Helm:

```bash
helm template install/kubernetes/helm/istio --name istio --namespace istio-system \
    --values install/kubernetes/helm/istio/values-istio-sds-auth.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

In the new API, the same profile would be selected through a CustomResource (CR):

```yaml
# sds.yaml

apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  profile: sds
```

See [Select a specific configuration_profile](#select-a-specific-configuration-profile) for more information.

If you don't specify a configuration profile, Istio is installed using the `default` configuration profile. All
profiles listed in istio.io are available by default, or `profile:` can point to a local file path to reference a custom
profile base to use as a starting point for customization. See the [API reference](pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/istiocontrolplane_types.proto)
for details.

## Developer quick start

The quick start describes how to install and use the operator `mesh` CLI command and/or controller.

### Building

If you're trying to do a local build that bypasses the build container, you'll need to
to execute the following step one time.

```
GO111MODULE=on go get github.com/jteeuwen/go-bindata/go-bindata@v3.0.8-0.20180305030458-6025e8de665b
```

#### Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/istio/operator.git
cd operator
```

#### CLI

To build the operator CLI, simply:

```bash
make mesh
```

This will create a binary called `mesh` in ${GOPATH}/bin. Ensure this is in your PATH to run the examples below.

#### Controller (in cluster)

Building a custom controller requires a Dockerhub (or similar) account. To build using the container based build:

```bash
HUB=docker.io/<your-account> TAG=latest make docker.all
```

This builds the controller binary and docker file, and pushes the image to the specified hub with the `latest` tag.
Once the images are pushed, configure kubectl to point to your cluster and install the controller. You should edit
the file deploy/operator.yaml to point to your docker hub:

```yaml
          image: docker.io/<your-account>/operator
```

Install the controller manifest and example IstioControlResource CR:

```bash
kubectl apply -k deploy/
kubectl apply -f deploy/crds/istio_v1alpha2_istiocontrolplane_cr.yaml 
```

This installs the controller into the cluster in the istio-operator namespace. The controller in turns installs
the Istio control plane into the istio-system namespace by default.

#### Controller (running locally)

1. Set env $WATCH_NAMESPACE and $LEADER_ELECTION_NAMESPACE (default value is "istio-operator")

1. From the operator repo root directory, run `go run ./cmd/manager/*.go server `

To use Remote debugging with IntelliJ, replace above step 2 with following:

1. From ./cmd/manager path run
`
dlv debug --headless --listen=:2345 --api-version=2 -- server
`.

1. In IntelliJ, create a new Go Remote debug configuration with default settings.

1. Start debugging process and verify it is working. For example, try adding a breakpoint at Reconcile logic and apply a new CR.

### Relationship between the CLI and controller

The CLI and controller share the same API and codebase for generating manifests from the API. You can think of the
controller as the CLI command `mesh manifest apply` running in a loop in a pod in the cluster and using the config
from the in-cluster IstioControlPlane CustomResource (CR). 
There are two major differences:
1. The controller does not accept any dynamic user config through flags. All user interaction is through the
IstioControlPlane CR.
1. The controller has additional logic that mirrors istioctl commands like upgrade, but is driven from the declarative
API rather than command line.

### Quick tour of CLI commands

#### Flags

The `mesh` command supports the following flags:

- `logtostderr`: log to console (by default logs go to ./mesh-cli.log).
- `dry-run`: console output only, nothing applied to cluster or written to files.
- `verbose`: display entire manifest contents and other debug info (default is false).

#### Basic default manifest

The following command generates a manifest with the compiled-in `default` profile and charts:

```bash
mesh manifest generate
```

You can see these sources for the compiled-in profiles and charts in the repo under `data/`. These profiles and charts are also included in the Istio release tar. 

#### Output to dirs

The output of the manifest is concatenated into a single file. To generate a directory hierarchy with subdirectory
levels representing a child dependency, use the following command:

```bash
mesh manifest generate -o istio_manifests
```

Use depth first search to traverse the created directory hierarchy when applying your YAML files. This is needed for
correct sequencing of dependencies. Child manifest directories must wait for their parent directory to be fully applied,
but not their sibling manifest directories.

#### Just apply it for me

The following command generates the manifests and applies them in the correct dependency order, waiting for the
dependencies to have the needed CRDs available:

```bash
mesh manifest apply
```

#### Review the values of a configuration profile

The following commands show the values of a configuration profile:

```bash
# show available profiles
mesh profile list

# show the values in demo profile
mesh profile dump demo

# show the values after a customization file is applied
mesh profile dump -f samples/policy-off.yaml

# show differences between the default and demo profiles
mesh profile dump default > 1.yaml
mesh profile dump demo > 2.yaml
mesh profile diff 1.yaml 2.yaml

# show the differences in the generated manifests between the default profile and a customized install
mesh manifest generate > 1.yaml
mesh manifest generate -f samples/pilot-k8s.yaml > 2.yaml
mesh manifest diff 1.yam1 2.yaml

```

The profile dump sub-command supports a couple of useful flags:

- `config-path`: select the root for the configuration subtree you want to see e.g. just show Pilot:

```bash
mesh profile dump --config-path trafficManagement.components.pilot
```

- `set`: set a value in the configuration before dumping the resulting profile e.g. show the minimal profile:

```bash
mesh profile dump --set profile=minimal
```


#### Select a specific configuration profile

The simplest customization is to select a profile different to `default` e.g. `sds`. See [samples/sds.yaml](samples/sds.yaml):

```yaml
# sds-install.yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  profile: sds
```

Use the Istio operator `mesh` binary to generate the manifests for the new configuration profile:

```bash
mesh manifest generate -f samples/sds.yaml
```

After running the command, the Helm charts are rendered using `data/profiles/sds.yaml`.

#### Install from file path

The compiled in charts and profiles are used by default, but you can specify a file path, for example:

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  profile: /usr/home/bob/go/src/github.com/ostromart/istio-installer/data/profiles/default.yaml
  installPackagePath: /usr/home/bob/go/src/github.com/ostromart/istio-installer/data/charts/
```

You can mix and match these approaches. For example, you can use a compiled-in configuration profile with charts in your
local file system.

#### Migration from values.yaml
The following command takes helm values.yaml files and output the new IstioControlPlaneSpec:
```bash
mesh manifest migrate /usr/home/bob/go/src/istio.io/installer/istio-control/istio-discovery/values.yaml
```

If a directory is specified, all files called "values.yaml" under the directory will be converted into a single combined IstioControlPlaneSpec:
```bash
mesh manifest migrate /usr/home/bob/go/src/istio.io/installer/istio-control
```

If no file is specified, the IstioControlPlane CR in the kube config cluster is used as an input:
```bash
mesh manifest migrate
```

#### Check diffs of manifests
The following command takes two manifests and output the differences in a readable way. It can be used to compare between the manifests generated by operator API and helm directly:
```bash
mesh manifest diff ./out/helm-template/manifest.yaml ./out/mesh-manifest/manifest.yaml
```

### New API customization

The [new platform level installation API](pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/istiocontrolplane_types.proto)
defines install time parameters like feature and component enablement and namespace, and K8s settings like resources, HPA spec etc. in a structured way.
The simplest customization is to turn features and components on and off. For example, to turn off all policy ([samples/sds-policy-off.yaml](samples/sds-policy-off.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  profile: sds
  policy:
    enabled: false
```

The operator validates the configuration and automatically detects syntax errors. Helm lacks this capability. If you are
using Helm values that are incompatible, the schema validation used in the operator may reject input that is valid for
Helm. Another customization is to define custom namespaces for features ([samples/trafficManagement-namespace.yaml](samples/trafficManagement-namespace.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  trafficManagement:
    components:
      namespace: istio-control-custom
```

The traffic management feature comprises Pilot and Proxy components. Each of these components has K8s
settings, and these can be overridden from the defaults using official K8s APIs rather than Istio defined schemas
 ([samples/pilot-k8s.yaml](samples/pilot-k8s.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  trafficManagement:
    components:
      pilot:
        k8s:
          resources:
            requests:
              cpu: 1000m # override from default 500m
              memory: 4096Mi # ... default 2048Mi
          hpaSpec:
            maxReplicas: 10 # ... default 5
            minReplicas: 2  # ... default 1
          nodeSelector: # ... default empty
            master: "true"
          tolerations: # ... default empty
          - key: dedicated
            operator: Exists
            effect: NoSchedule
          - key: CriticalAddonsOnly
            operator: Exists
```

The K8s settings are defined in detail in the
[operator API](pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/istiocontrolplane_types.proto).
The settings are the same for all components, so a user can configure pilot K8s settings in exactly the same, consistent
way as galley settings. Supported K8s settings currently include:

- [resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/#resource-requests-and-limits-of-pod-and-container)
- [readiness probes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/)
- [replica count](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/)
- [HorizontalPodAutoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/)
- [PodDisruptionBudget](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions/#how-disruption-budgets-work)
- [pod annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/)
- [container environment variables](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/define-environment-variable-container/)
- [ImagePullPolicy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/)
- [priority calss name](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/pod-priority-preemption/#priorityclass)
- [node selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#nodeselector)
- [toleration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/taint-and-toleration/)
- [affinity and anti-affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity)
- [deployment strategy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/)

All of these K8s settings use the K8s API definitions, so [K8s documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/) can
be used for reference. All K8s overlay values are also validated in the operator.

### Customizing the old values.yaml API

The new platform install API above deals with K8s level settings. The remaining values.yaml parameters deal with Istio
control plane operation rather than installation. For the time being, the operator just passes these through to the Helm
charts unmodified (but validated through a
[schema](pkg/apis/istio/v1alpha2/values_types.go)). Values.yaml settings
are overridden the same way as the new API, though a customized CR overlaid over default values for the selected
profile. Here's an example of overriding some global level default values ([samples/values-global.yaml](samples/values-global.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  profile: sds
  values:
    global:
      logging:
        level: "default:warning" # override from info
```

Values overrides can also be specified for a particular component
 ([samples/values-pilot.yaml](samples/values-pilot.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  values:
    mixer:
      telemetry:
        loadshedding:
          latencyThreshold: 200ms  
```

### Advanced K8s resource overlays

Advanced users may occasionally have the need to customize parameters (like container command line flags) which are not
exposed through either of the installation or configuration APIs described in this document. For such cases, it's
possible to overlay the generated K8s resources before they are applied with user-defined overlays. For example, to
override some container level values in the Pilot container  ([samples/pilot-advanced-override.yaml](samples/pilot-advanced-override.yaml)):

```yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha2
kind: IstioControlPlane
spec:
  trafficManagement:
    enabled: true
    components:
      proxy:
        enabled: false
      pilot:
        k8s:
          overlays:
          - kind: Deployment
            name: istio-pilot
            patches:
            - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:discovery].args.[30m]
              value: "60m" # OVERRIDDEN
            - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:discovery].ports.[containerPort:8080].containerPort
              value: 8090 # OVERRIDDEN
          - kind: Service
            name: istio-pilot
            patches:
            - path: spec.ports.[name:grpc-xds].port
              value: 15099 # OVERRIDDEN
```

The user-defined overlay uses a path spec that includes the ability to select list items by key. In the example above,
the container with the key-value "name: discovery" is selected from the list of containers, and the command line
parameter with value "30m" is selected to be modified. The advanced overlay capability is described in more detail in
the spec.

## Interaction with controller

The controller shares the same API as the operator CLI, so it's possible to install any of the above examples as a CR
in the cluster in the istio-operator namespace and the controller will react to it with the same outcome as running
`mesh manifest apply -f <path-to-custom-resource-file>`.

## Architecture

See [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md)
